todo.md, before:

# Main Impl
Bounds Checking

    proc isValidIndex(grid: Grid, index: int): bool

    proc isValidCoord(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): bool

    proc assertValidIndex(grid: Grid, index: int)

    proc assertValidCoord(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int)

Coordinate & Index Conversions

    proc indexToCoords(grid: Grid, index: int): (int, int)

    proc coordsToIndex(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): int

    (You already have these, but make sure they are always accessible)

Cell Accessors

    proc getCell(grid: Grid, index: int): var Cell

    proc getCellAt(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): var Cell

    proc setCellKind(grid: Grid, index: int, kind: CellKind)

    proc setCellOccupant(grid: Grid, index: int, occupant: ID)

Entity Management Helpers

    proc entityExists(grid: Grid, id: ID): bool

    proc getEntityAt(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): Option[Entity] (or nullable/ref)

    proc moveEntityTo(grid: Grid, id: ID, x: int, y: int)

    proc removeEntity(grid: Grid, id: ID)

Grid Initialization / Reset

    proc clearGrid(grid: Grid, kind: CellKind = Unfilled, occupant: ID = EmptyID)

    proc fillGrid(grid: Grid, kind: CellKind)

Neighbor Queries

    proc getNeighbors(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): seq[(int, int)]
    (return coordinates or indices of valid adjacent cells, optionally diagonals)

    proc countOccupiedNeighbors(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): int

Utility Functions

    proc isOccupied(grid: Grid, index: int): bool

    proc findEmptyCell(grid: Grid): Option[int]

    proc findEntitiesByOwner(grid: Grid, ownerID: ID): seq[ID]

    proc entityAtIndex(grid: Grid, index: int): Option[Entity]

Grid Iteration Helpers

    proc forEachCell(grid: Grid, callback: proc (cell: var Cell, x, y: int))

    proc forEachEntity(grid: Grid, callback: proc (entity: var Entity))

Debugging Helpers

    proc printGrid(grid: Grid)

    proc printEntities(grid: Grid)

Serialization Helpers

    proc serializeGrid(grid: Grid): string

    proc deserializeGrid(grid: Grid, data: string)

Commit message:

Removed entity management / README update

todo.md, after:

# Consideration
I might trim off the entity part completely. It might be a better idea to create a separate entity library. Since after all we're just storing IDs
# Main Impl
Bounds Checking

    proc isValidIndex(grid: Grid, index: int): bool

    proc isValidCoord(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): bool

    proc assertValidIndex(grid: Grid, index: int)

    proc assertValidCoord(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int)

Coordinate & Index Conversions

    proc indexToCoords(grid: Grid, index: int): (int, int)

    proc coordsToIndex(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): int

    (You already have these, but make sure they are always accessible)

Cell Accessors

    proc getCell(grid: Grid, index: int): var Cell

    proc getCellAt(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): var Cell

    proc setCellKind(grid: Grid, index: int, kind: CellKind)

    proc setCellOccupant(grid: Grid, index: int, occupant: ID)

Entity Management Helpers

    proc entityExists(grid: Grid, id: ID): bool

    proc getEntityAt(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): Option[Entity] (or nullable/ref)

    proc moveEntityTo(grid: Grid, id: ID, x: int, y: int)

    proc removeEntity(grid: Grid, id: ID)

Grid Initialization / Reset

    proc clearGrid(grid: Grid, kind: CellKind = Unfilled, occupant: ID = EmptyID)

    proc fillGrid(grid: Grid, kind: CellKind)

Neighbor Queries

    proc getNeighbors(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): seq[(int, int)]
    (return coordinates or indices of valid adjacent cells, optionally diagonals)

    proc countOccupiedNeighbors(grid: Grid, x: int, y: int): int

Utility Functions

    proc isOccupied(grid: Grid, index: int): bool

    proc findEmptyCell(grid: Grid): Option[int]

    proc findEntitiesByOwner(grid: Grid, ownerID: ID): seq[ID]

    proc entityAtIndex(grid: Grid, index: int): Option[Entity]

Grid Iteration Helpers

    proc forEachCell(grid: Grid, callback: proc (cell: var Cell, x, y: int))

    proc forEachEntity(grid: Grid, callback: proc (entity: var Entity))

Debugging Helpers

    proc printGrid(grid: Grid)

    proc printEntities(grid: Grid)

Serialization Helpers

    proc serializeGrid(grid: Grid): string

    proc deserializeGrid(grid: Grid, data: string)
